{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2509;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22 Define and give an example of the following:\par
reasoning by analogy / homology\par
\b0\f1\tab\f0 homology - the studies of living primates often gives us more insight about the behavior of our ancestors than do studies of other organisms\f1\par
\tab\f0 reasoning - by assessing the pattersn of diversity in behavior and morphology of organisms in relation to their environments, we can see how evolution shapes adaptation in response to different selective pressures\f1\par
\b\f0 mating vs. social systems\f1\par
\tab\b0\f0 Solitary - Females maintain separate ranges alongside offspring  and males may coma long to protect some or alot of females\par
\tab Monogamy - one male/one female with offspring\par
\tab Polyandry - 1 female with 2+ males\par
\tab Polygyny: onemale - one male multi\f1 -\f0 female\par
\tab Polygyny multi male/female - several adult males and females\f1\par
\tab\f0 Mating - the way animals find mates and care for offspring\f1\par
\b\f0 heterodontism / dental formula\par
sexual selection / kin selection\par
\b0\f1\tab\ul\f0 Sexual\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\f1\tab\tab\lang9\f0 "favors adaptation " that help to gain access to mates\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li1440\sa200\sl276\slmult1 intra-sexual comp (male-male)\par
inter-sexual mate choice (females)\par
Favors large body size, large canine teeth, and other "weapons"\par
Sexual dimorphism greater in uni-male and multi-male species\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul Kin \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\f1\tab\f0 phenotype matching\par
\tab proximity + familiarity\lang1033\f1\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0 contest / scramble competition\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab\lang9\b0\f0 Contest - monopolizable resources\par
\f1\tab\tab\f0 Occurs when resources are limited and can be monopolized profitably generating direct confrontations over access to them.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Scramble - unmonopolizable resources\par
\f1\tab\f0 Occurs when resources are distributed evenly across the landscape.\lang1033\b\f1\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0 altruistic / selfish behavior\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0 Hamilton's rule -\lang9  Altruism favored when costs are lower than benefits (discounted by relatedness)\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 a. Altruist gives alarm call to group\par
b. Nonaltruist doesn't give alarm call to group\f1\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang1033\b\f0 Give two reasons why anthropologists study non-human primates.\par
\b0\f1\tab\f0 1.  closely related species tend to be similar morphologically.\f1\par
\tab\f0 2. natural selection leads to similar organisms in similar environments\f1\par
\b\f0 The Arboreal, Visual-Predation and Angiosperm Co-evolution hypotheses have been proposed to\par
explain the adaptive radiation of the Order Primates. What are arguments for each?\par
\b0\f1\tab\ul\f0 Arboreal\par
\ulnone\f1\tab\f0 The arboreal hypothesis suggests that a ground-running biped first became adapted to life in trees, where it took to leaping from branch to branch, then parachuting. Later it developed flapping flight. Feathers became aerodynamically important at the jumping stage and evolved directly into flight feathers.\f1\par
\tab\f0 The arboreal theory says basically that because early primates evolved to meet the needs of living an arboreal life (Conroy, 1990). For example because these creatures lived in a three-dimensional world they evolved full stereoscopic vision to be better able to move through the environment.\par
\tab\ul Visual\par
\ulnone\f1\tab\f0 This theory puts forth the notion that orbital convergence, grasping hands and feet, and reduced claws were an adaptation for the nocturnal foraging for fruit and insects on terminal branches in the shrub layer of the forest. Orbital convergence would assist in gauging the prey's distance without having to move the head much like seen in modern day owls\par
\tab\ul Angiosperm\par
\ulnone\f1\tab\f0 This theory says that the adaptive radiation primates occurred with the radiation of angiosperms (flowering plants) that offered new opportunities and an unexplored niche. The early primates were omnivores that were able to feed on objects such as fruits, flowers, gums, nectars, and insects that fed upon these plant parts. The stereoscopic vision evolved to discriminate between food items at low levels of light and handling them would have necessitated better hand-eye coordination\par
\b Primate taxonomy: for each of the following five taxa, know at least three distinguishing features of\par
behavior or anatomy that would distinguish it from the other groups. Your choices are nonprimate,\par
strepsirhine, platyrrhine, cercopithecoid, and hominoid.\par
o Example: This animal has a dental formula of 2.1.3.3 on the mandible, forelimbs and hindlimbs\par
of equal length, broad nostrils. ___________________\f1\par
\f0 nonprimate\par
\tab\b0 No opposable thumbs/hallux\par
\tab Limbs adjacent to body\b\f1\par
\f0 strepsirhine\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\b0\f0 Reduced upper incisors\par
Tooth comb\par
Grooming claw\par
Moist rhinarium\par
Tapetum lucidum\par
Primary nocturnal\par
Sideways nose\lang1033\b\f1\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0 platyrrhine\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab\lang9\b0\f0 NWM:  2.1.3.3\par
\tab Nose: Oval, not always downward faced\par
\tab Small Body Size\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Arboreal, Nocturnal, Vertical clinging, Solitary, Carnivorous\f1\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang1033\b\f0 Cercopithecoid (OWM)\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\f1\tab\lang9\f0 Molars\lang1033 : \lang9 ridges that connect cusps (bilophodant)\f1\par
\tab\f0 Long, downward faced\par
\tab Dental: 2.1.2.3\f1\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang1033\b\f0 Hominoid \lang9 (Apes and Humans)\lang1033\f1\par
\b0\tab\lang9\f0 Molars\lang1033 : \lang9 5 cusps, Y shaped on side (Y-5)\f1\par
\tab\f0 Long, downward faced\par
\tab Dental: 2.1.2.3\lang1033\f1\par
\b\f0 What are the three main proximate threats endangering primates?\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\b0\f0 1. Habitat loss/disturbance\par
\tab logging\par
\tab fires\par
2. Hunting\par
\tab subsistence\par
\tab commercial (bushmeat & "sport")\par
3. Live Capture\par
\tab entertainment\par
\tab exotic pet\lang1033\b\f1\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0 What is the relationship between conservation and research?\f1\par
\b0\f0 Conservations efforts have significantly improved the survival prospects of a number of primate species\f1 .\par
\f0 Land-for debt swaps in which foreign debts are forgiven\f1\par
\b\f0 Describe the different types of habitats where primates reside.\f1\par
\b0\f0 Primates are generally restricted to tropical regions of the world\f1\par
\f0 Temp changes are fluctuates more from day to night than over the changing seasons\par
Tropical forests, savanna woodlands, mangrove swamps, grasslands, high altitude plateaus and deserts\f1\par
\b\f0 What are the niche concept and the competitive exclusion principle?\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\b0\f0 A niche refers to an organism's role, especially its feeding role, in a community.\par
Competition occurs when there is resource scarcity.\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang1033\b Describe the two types of competition and explain under what conditions you would expect to find each.\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\b0\f0 Contest - monopolizable resources\par
Scramble - unmonopolizable resources\lang1033\b\f1\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0 In socioecological terms, what are Risks and Resources? How do they influence social structure and\par
behavior?\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\b0\f0 Anti-predator tactics\par
\tab -crypsis (camouflage)\par
\tab -living in groups (more eyes, mobbing, safely in numbers, selfish herd)\par
\tab\tab costs: easily visible, competition for food\par
\tab -alarm calls\par
\tab -poly-specific association\par
Basal metabolic rate (BMP)\par
Active metabolism\par
Growth/reproduction\lang1033\b\f1\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0 What determines an individual\rquote s energetic requirements?\f1\par
\b0\f0 Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) - rate at which an animal expends energy to maintain life when at rest\f1\par
\f0 Depends on size, how fast it moves, normal range of activities\par
Growth - infants and juveniles\par
Pregnant females - 25% more for latter stages, 50% more for lactation\f1\par
\b\f0 How do most primates acquire a full compliment of nutrients?\f1\par
\b0\f0 They eat carbohydrates, protein, fats and oils, vitamins, minerals and water that are found in...\par
Animals, fruits, seeds, flowers, young leaves, mature leaves, woody stems, sap, gum\par
Primates rely on 1 main source for carbs and protein\f1\par
\b\f0 Distinguish the dietary adaptations associated with the following dietary types: (i.e. what are the gut and tooth morphologies for each type of diet): frugivorous, folivorous, insectivorous, gummivous. Give an example of a taxon that has each type of dietary adaptation.\f1\par
\b0\f0 Frugivorous (Fruit eaters)\par
\f1\tab\f0 Tooth - Broad incisors, low rounded molar cusps\par
\tab Gut - Long small intestine\par
\f1\tab\f0 Taxon - spider monkey\f1\par
\f0 Folivorous (Leaf Eaters)\f1\par
\tab\f0 Tooth - Well-developed molar shearing crests, small incisors\par
\tab Gut-  large Caecum, complex stomach, Enlarge large intestine\par
\f1\tab\f0 Taxon - Rhesus macaque\f1\par
\f0 Insectivorous (Insect Eaters)\f1\par
\tab\f0 Tooth - sharp cusps\par
\tab Gut - Short, simple gut\par
\f1\tab\f0 Taxon - Bushbaby\f1\par
\f0 Gummivous (Gum Eaters)\f1\par
\tab\f0 Tooth - Stout incisors\par
\tab Gut - Long caecum\par
\f1\tab\f0 Taxon - Langur\f1\par
\b\f0 Describe the relationship between body size and diet in primates [Think \ldblquote quality vs. quantity\rdblquote ].\f1\par
\b0\f0 Small animals have relatively higher energy requirements than larger animals do, and require relatively small amounts of high quality foods than can be processed quickly.  Larger animals are less constrained by the quality of their foods than by the quantity, as they can afford to process lower quality foods more slowly\f1\par
\b\f0 Why are some primates territorial and others not? List at least 2 costs and 2 benefits to defending a\par
territory.\f1\par
\b0\f0 Primates could be territorial for resource defense and mate defense\f1\par
\f0 Benefits\par
Prevents outsiders from exploiting the limited resources within a territory\par
Sexual exclusivity\par
\tab Males - access to mates\par
\tab Females - access to food\par
Costs\par
Constantly vigilant to intruders\par
Regularly advertise their presence and willingness to defend\f1\par
\b\f0 What factors (i.e. benefits) encourage living in groups and what factors limit group size (i.e. costs).\f1\par
\ul\b0\f0 Benefits\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\ulnone\f0 Large groups can supplant small groups\par
Foraging efficiency increases\par
Dilution effect (Safety in numbers)\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang1033\ul Costs\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\ulnone\f0 Conspecific threat\par
Increased competition for resources\par
Increased vulnerability to disease\par
Increased detection by predators\lang1033\b\f1\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0 What factor constrains fitness among females? Among males?\f1\par
\ul\b0\f0 Females\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\b\f1\tab\lang9\b0\f0 Age affects rank\par
\tab Born from high ranking mother\lang1033\b\f1\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\b0\f0 Males\f1\par
\ulnone\tab\f0 Access to females\f1\par
\tab\f0 Sexually receptive females\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\tab\f0 a. those that increase the fitness of their mates\par
\tab b. those that increase genetic quality and thus increase the fitness of the offspring\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f1\tab\f0 c.  non-adaptive traits that make males more conspicuous to females\lang1033\f1\par
\b\f0 What (reproductive) advantages are there to being dominant, or high-ranking?\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab\lang9\b0\f0 Daughters of High ranking females get a sexual encounter 5 years earlier than low ranking\f1\par
\tab\f0 Offspring and mother are able to gain access to food\par
\f1\tab\f0 Males: Dominant = attractiveness for females because good success of genes being passed on\f1\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang1033\b\f0 Why are male mammals more likely not to be involved in the caring of offspring (relative to female\par
investment in offspring)?\f1\par
\b0\tab\f0 They can impregnate another female at a pretty good rate and by doing so passing on their genes while a female has to carry a child in her for months only being able to reproduce maybe once a year.\par
\b What criteria need to be met to demonstrate that such a behavior might result in a higher reproductive success for infanticidal males?\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\b0\tab\f0 assert a change in male residence\par
\tab Killing infants -> females resume rep. cycle\par
\tab don't kill own infant\par
\tab males gain reprod. benefits\par
\tab Paternity confusion\par
\f1\tab\f0 Female: Associating with other males\lang1033\b\f1\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0 Under which mating system would you expect a male to participate the greatest amount in parental\par
care? Explain.\f1\par
\tab\b0\f0 Monogamy\f1\par
\tab\tab\f0 Acquiring additional mates is not easy\par
\tab\tab Investment in offspring will do greater or benefit it more with two parents rearing it\f1\par
\b\f0 What are the 2 main components of sexual selection?\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab\lang9\b0\f0 Intrasexual comp (between males)\par
\f1\tab\tab\f0 Large body size, large canine teeth and other weapons\par
\tab\tab Selection favors sperm produtcion\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Intersexual comp (results from female choice)\par
\f1\tab\f0 A. those that increase the fitness of their mates\par
\f1\tab\f0 B. those that indicate good genes and thus increase the fitness of the offspring\par
\tab C. nonadpative traits that make males more conspicuous to females\lang1033\f1\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0 What are some quantitative measures that indicate the relative intensity of male-male competition\par
among male primates?\f1\par
\b0\tab\f0 Infanticide, \lang9 Harassment\par
\f1\tab\f0 Rank varies according to age it seems\par
\tab Males must leave natal group and disperse, then integrate themselves into a group of females, once established find a mate but this doesn't give them access to all females \f1\par
\lang1033\b\f0 Describe traits that might be favored by females during mate choice. What is meant by direct vs.\par
indirect benefits? Give an example.\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab\lang9\b0\f0 a. Monogamous males stick around to care for offspring\par
\tab b. Females prefer flanged males. might have a better genetic quality\par
\f1\tab\f0 Intersexual competition\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f1\tab\f0 A. those that increase the fitness of their mates\par
\tab B. those that indicate good genes and thus increase the fitness of the offspring\par
\tab C. nonadpative traits that make males more conspicuous to females\lang1033\f1\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab\f0 Higher rank = more benefits\par
\b What are 2 female counterstrategies to infanticide by males?\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab\lang9\b0\f0 Fight back\par
\tab Paternity confusion\par
\tab Associating with other males\lang1033\b\f1\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0 Compare and contrast group selection and kin selection.\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\ul\b0\f0 Alarm calling: Group Selection?\par
\ulnone a. Altruist gives alarm call to group\par
b. Nonaltruist doesn't give alarm call to group\par
\ul Alarm Calling: Kin Selection!\par
\ulnone a. Altruist gives alarm call to siblings\par
b. Nonaltruist doesn't give alarm call to siblings\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang1033\b What is Hamilton\rquote s Rule? Define inclusive fitness.\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab\lang9\b0\f0 Altruism favored when costs are lower than benefits (discounted by relatedness):\par
\tab Altruism should be limited to KIN\par
\tab Closer kinship facilitates more costly altruism\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Equation: rB>C\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1 C = Cost to actor; \tab B = Benefit to all recipients;\tab r = Coefficient of relatedness\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang1033\b Explain reciprocal altruism. What conditions should be met for reciprocity to be favored?\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\b0\f0 interact often\par
\tab keeping track (cognitive capacity)\par
\tab support those that help\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang1033\b How do the ecological complexity and social intelligence models explain the evolution of primate\par
cognition?\par
What is extractive foraging?\par
If neocortex size (or ratio) is associated with primate cognition, then what are the expected relationships\par
with degree of frugivory, extent of extractive foraging, home range area and group size? What\par
hypothesis would each prediction support?\par
How are coalition participation and deception in primates related to an understanding of third-party\par
relationships?\par
What is theory of mind?\f1\par
\par
\tab\tab\b0\tab\tab\tab Primates\par
\tab\tab\tab /\tab\tab\tab\tab\\\par
\tab\tab Prosimian\tab\tab\tab\tab Anthropoid\par
\tab /\tab |\tab\\\tab\tab\tab\tab /\tab\\\par
Lemurs\tab\tab Lorises\tab   Tarsiers\tab Platyrhinne(NWM)\tab Cattyrhinne\par
\tab\tab\tab | \tab\tab |\tab\tab\tab /\tab\tab\\\par
\f0\tab\tab\tab |\tab        Cebodiea   Cercopithecoidea(OWM)    Hominoidea\par
\tab\tab\tab |\tab\tab | \tab\\\tab\tab\tab /\tab /\tab |\par
\tab\tab\tab |\tab Cebidae   Callitrichidae\tab   Hylobatidae  Pongidae Homindea\par
\b Strepsinhines\b0\tab\tab |\tab\b Haplorhinnes\b0\par
t-pain reverse cowgirl ft young jeezy\f1\par
}
 